---
title: "Giving Up is Easy"
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post
permalink: /2015/02/21/quitting/
category:
    - Blog
---

The easiest way out of a difficult situation in life is to give up or pull the pin.

[Pressfield](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0087TUM54/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B0087TUM54&linkCode=as2&tag=jlymannet-20&linkId=BNM2PMM3XHDP636W):

> The term “pulling the pin” comes from the old days of riding the rails. To uncouple one car from another, the train crew pulled a heavy steel pin out of the coupling mechanism.When someone pulls the pin in a metaphorical sense, they’re giving up, they’re quitting. I’ve been in situations where I wanted to give up so bad. There were times that I did, too! Hell, I’ve given up a lot in my life.

Sometimes when I gave up, it was because I made a made decision in the first place. Sometimes, it was because I didn’t give a rat’s ass, and sometimes, I was bailing.

No one is immune to giving up because it’s easier. Looking back on things I gave up on, if I stuck with them, I could be in a different place than I am today. Instead, I have to live with my choices, and those choices ultimately gave me the great things I have today… with a bunch of&nbsp;additional hard work.

I can speculate that I might not have the job I have today, I might not have the wife I have today, and I might not be living where I am today. Who really knows? If I hadn’t given up high school, I could have gone to a good college and had a degree in something I enjoy several years ago. Looking at my age, I would also likely have a master’s degree, all before I turned 26.

I pulled the pin and paid the consequences for it. I failed out of high school and had to start over in order to graduate. I had to work jobs that didn’t require much education in order to make a living. I led a shadow life not doing what I really wanted to do because I fucked up. Even during this shadow period, I never pulled the pin, and it’s paying off.

Would I go back and do it differently? Hell yeah I would, so long as I can pick and choose what happens. Unfortunately, that’s not how life works, so without that control, I absolutely wouldn’t go back.

The next time you think about pilling the pin or giving up, think about what’ll happen next. Think about more than just your feelings at that moment. Stop being selfish. I was selfish and only cared about my laziness. I cared only about how easy the easy way out was. Life isn’t easy. To think it is, is amateurish in nature and a guaranteed way to fail.

I’ve seen what it’s like to not give up.

I’m not a fucking quitter. Fuck pulling pins.

