---
title: "Recovering from Failure"
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post
permalink: /2015/03/03/failure/
category:
    - Blog
---

Yesterday, I failed. I failed pretty hard. It hurt a lot.

As you may well know, the search for a new job in San Francisco is on. A recent application I placed with a company I very well respect and admire got a response. They sent me a performance assessment to run through. I thought this would be an amazing time to shine.

Turns out, there was no shining to be had. I bombed it spectacularly. By the end of the hour, I likely received the worst possible score the test is capable of, short of not taking it at all. What’s worse, I went into it thinking I would be able to master it since it’s in my field. It’s stuff I know how to do.

Or so I thought.

My experience and views towards my experience came into question quite thoroughly. I’m not completely over it, yet, as the impact was greater than most rejections because of the company in question. I had my heart set on working for an awesome company on an awesome product that I really enjoyed, myself. Now that likely won’t happen.

My wife tells me it will be alright, and while it’s hard to agree with that right now, she’s right. There’s another test waiting for me that I haven’t started yet. I’m not sure if I’ll actually take it. I don’t know if I want to go through what I went through yesterday, one more time. Sure there’s a chance I can ace it, but that still doesn’t really show I’m qualified.

I’m going to mull this over, today, and see how I feel. If I decide to take it, I’ll do it tonight. Whether I pass or fail, it’ll make a good story to write about, tomorrow.

Now’s the time to recover from this failure. It still stings, but I can still build back up that foundation I’m standing on and keep the hunt going. It’s not something I’ll forget easily, but it’s a fact of life. Part of turning pro is accepting failures and moving on from them as they happen. Sometimes shit really does happen and there’s nothing you can do about it. In my case, more education and experience could possibly have fixed my situation, but that’s not a for sure notion.

