---
title: "California Move Day 2 &#8211; To Medford"
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post
permalink: /2015/04/12/move-day-2/
category:
    - Blog
---

Now the real fun begins. There’s nothing more that I’ve wanted from life than to drive a 40’ truck-trailer combination over 900 miles. Today’s journey took us to Medford, OR, where we make our first of two on-the-road stops.

We chose to stay in the Ramada, and it’d been so long since I stayed in a place like that I forgot what it was like. Apparently, they opted to not redecorate since I last stayed in one in the 90s. The hotel was crap. I’m not sure it was worth the $64 a night price tag, but at least the WiFi was good. It was great actually. Probably because nobody was actually staying there besides truckers. The bed was hard and the breakfast was meh, but it did its job as a place to sleep for the night. Medford is a surprisingly beautiful area. The south Oregon mountains are awesome and quite a site to see, compared to the rest of the state.

Not much happened on the journey south. We sat in the truck for nine hours including stops, filled up once with what seemed like an entire tanker of gas, and somehow managed 12mpg, with car trailer. I was quite impressed, but at the same time, not. Budget really needs to stop using gas engines in their tow-capable trucks. We could have skipped a stop if we were rolling in a diesel truck.

I experienced a Popeye’s for the second time in my life. The first time involved me wishing I hadn’t experienced Popeye’s. This time, it was actually decent, but considering this was the fourth or fifth meal involving fast food, I was starting to feel pretty gross.

The bane of my existence has yet to come, however.

&nbsp;

