---
title: "Settling for Second&#8230; or Third&#8230; or Fourth Best"
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post
permalink: /2015/02/21/settling/
categories:
    - Blog
---

Settling for a ‘meh’ lifestyle leads to nothing more than ‘meh’ everywhere else.

> I was in deadly earnest and committed 100% to making my life as an over-the-road trucker. What I was really doing was running away…It’s easy to get into a rut and stick to a routine that involves mediocrity. Sometimes it’s easy. Easy work can also pay well, too. In Pressfield’s case, driving a truck and traveling around the country. Sure that sounds cool, but is that what turning pro means? For some, sure. Some people genuinely enjoy truck driving and that’s their career.&nbsp;

In your world, what are you doing to contribute to your purpose? What is it that you want to do with your life? Is what you’re doing now contributing to that? Unless it’s hobby related, that answer should be yes.

From [Pressfield](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0087TUM54/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B0087TUM54&linkCode=as2&tag=jlymannet-20&linkId=BNM2PMM3XHDP636W):

> We pursue callings that take us nowhere and permit ourselves to be controlled by compulsions that we cannot understand (or are not aware of) and whose outcomes serve only to keep us caged, unconscious and going nowhere.Are you addicted to living a ‘meh’ life? While such things are inherently less dangerous than an addition to a hard drug, addicts all have similar descriptions.

> …the lies, the evasions, the transparent self-justifications and self-exonerations. But the addict himself is often a colorful and fascinating person.There’s a layer of crap on top of a great wealth of awesomeness. Even with living life, it’s easy to become addicted to the security blanket or comfort zone one builds around themselves. It’s easy to stay within those bounds and do nothing more than what’s necessary to keep that wall up. Distractions are made and deviations happen often so as to keep the momentum of boring going and to keep the unknown from catching up.

> The amateur is an egotist. He takes the material of his personal pain and uses it to draw attention to himself. He creates a “life,” a “character,” a “personality.”Also known as: “_woe is me._”

It’s easy for me to tell you to stand up and face the fear of the unknown and put down the metaphoric needle of habitual boringness. In reality it’s not. Without confidence to try something new or finally take that first step to becoming pro at life or at what you want to do, fear, self-doubt, and self-sabotage will take over.

What can be done about that? A support system is a great start. If you’ve never climbed a mountain before, doing it alone isn’t a good idea. If you’ve never stepped out into the unknown before, having someone or a group of people to help you wherever they can makes it easier. Have friends hold you accountable. Have your wife, husband, girlfriend, boyfriend, sister, brother or other relative check in on you every day and talk about how it’s all going. However this support system helps, never ignore it and never push back when you hate what it has to say.

