---
title: "Ugg Boots to an Interview for America?"
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post
permalink: /2015/01/06/ugg/
category:
    - Blog
---

My wife told me something quite hilarious this afternoon. She said she saw a woman wear Ugg boots to an interview. Let’s stop and think about that for a moment… what is an interview, really? It’s one person asking another person questions. That seems simple enough, so who is she to judge if someone wants to wear a fashion item that was cool eight years ago to an interview? Maybe my wife was overdressed! Maybe the sky fell in somewhere and everything else this mystery lady could wear was crushed in an avalanche of space ions.

Then it got me thinking: we hear so much garbage on TV and the radio and read online about how today’s workforce just ain’t what it used to be. I’ll mostly agree with that statement, things have changed. There are fewer people in the active workforce then there was six years ago and I’m sure that’s a bad statistic for someone somewhere planning a political event. But perhaps we’re looking at this all wrong. We’re saying people are out of work because they suck at being relevant and nobody wants to hire them anymore, when in reality, they’re just wearing those damn awful boots with the fur to interviews. I’d be willing to bet the 1.5 bitcoin that Mt. Gox owes me that if fewer people wore boots to an interview (sans those above the arctic circle, they get a pass… it’s damn cold up there and that snow… oh God that snow) we’d have more people working! I have an idea.

Let’s take down the Ugg boot people. They’re the ones destroying America with their job-killing foot-holders! They’re so anti-American, they can’t even make a red, white, and blue colored boot! How dare they appease the socialists! Tools.

But wait… why stop at the boots? What about everything else!? We should ban computers because they don’t do enough to prevent spelling errors on resumes crafted by greasy teenagers in their parent’s basement. Those undiscovered wordsmiths are being held back by corporate America’s technological offerings. We need to bring back the #2 pencil… for America.

But wait… again! Can you imagine the horrors if their greasy car didn’t start? What would our new-found leader of the free world do if their 1993 Honda Civic didn’t start and they had to walk to work? If they lose their job, they’ll NEVER take over this country and bring it back to its full, Ugg-boot-free glory! We must stop the crap-mobiles from continuing their journeys on the road of freedom, aka America Avenue!

I have an idea… let’s let them wear the Ugg boots. Forget everything I just said. If you’re that much of a tool or generally ignorant that an interview for a professional job in a professional setting with other professionally-dressed people around you doesn’t give you a single hint that perhaps you should have worn something without the fur, maybe that job isn’t for you.

* * *
_This post is the first of ten based on a new mission I’m on: 10 Days to a Better Blog from the maker of the Desk app (the best writing app to ever exist). Please follow my adventures on this blog with the tag [10daysbetterblog](//jlyman.net/t/10daysbetterblog) and follow all who take part in this project [on twitter with the hashtag: #10daysbetterblog](//twitter.com/#10daysbetterblog "#10daysbetterblog"). Enjoy!_

&nbsp;

