---
title: "And Then There Was One &#8211; Wrapping Up and Looking Back"
author: Johnathan Lyman
layout: post
permalink: /2015/01/14/one/
categories:
    - Blog
---

So this is it. I signed on to the #10DaysBetterBlog challenge thinking I need to kick myself in the butt when it came to writing. I knew I wanted to do it, but I lacked motivation. I needed something that I could stick to, and work on in little pieces. Just telling myself “write more, ya dummy!” wasn’t cutting it. John Saddington’s 10 Days to a Better Blog has been the motivation I needed. I like to think of it as a personal workout regimen put together by a trainer. People&nbsp;_want_ to get back into shape, but they having something there to motivate them and give them a place to start helps greatly. This was my personal training for writting.

But not just the action of putting words onto digital paper was affected, though. I re-started my blog. I decided to give a crap about sharing my ideas online. Sure I’ve written a couple things in the past. Back then, I kept telling myself that nobody wanted to read it so why bother? Over the last couple weeks, I learned something about that idea: it doesn’t matter how many people read it, it’s just the fact that you do it. I maybe have gotten three hundred unique sets of eyes over the last two weeks because of this challenge, and my posting links on the Desk.pm Community site. When it’s all over, I might not see any of those people again. Eleven days ago, things woudld have been different but now, I don’t care. I mean… I do care. I want to see people come to my site and read what I have to say. What I mean is that if I only get one set of eyes and those eyes belong to my wife or my mom or someone who reads my stuff in support of me, then that’s good enough. The number of eyes doesn’t effect my desire to write, anymore, and ideally it never will, again.

&nbsp;

I rambled a bit about where I want to go with my blogging, and set goals for myself a couple days ago. Looking back on the fact that I was able to write something and post it every day for ten days in a row is awesome. Taking the new found knoweldge I have on how much time it really doesn’t take to write something worthwhile and combining it with relfections of my goals and what I want to write about, the idea of keeping the train moving swiftly isn’t daunting. As I look back, I can say that two weeks ago me would have disagreed. I would have sighed at the idea of having to sit down and write every day, thinking that I’ll end up spending hours on something and have zero return. Nah. I get a boatload of returns each time and I don’t have to spend all day.

&nbsp;

Completing this challenge/workshop has also helped my regular, daily routine. I discussed how I used to have a terrible morning ritual. It really wasn’t a ritual but more of a dazed panic, kind of like what happens right after you get out of your car after getting into a wreck and are losing your mind but you checked out at the same time? That’s how I used to feel every morning. That’s a terrible way to go to work and it leads to zero productivity. It used to take a couple hours to get my brain to spin up to full speed and waiting for that to happen made me even more tired. Now, I get up earlier, thanks to hacking my sleep schedule and making myself set aside time in the morning to do something stimulating like sitting down and writing. I used to think that getting up at 3:30-4:00am when I don’t have to leave until 5:30am was a joke. That’s a good 1 1/2-2 hours of sleep I could be getting. While that is&nbsp;_technically_ true, it was more about when I wake up in my sleep cycle. Figuring that out and waking up more graually helped a lot more than sleeping in. I know this to be true because my weekends are still a bit sketchy. I still need to work on keeping my routine consistent on the weekends so my body can get used to it quicker. No hacks happen when you reset after five days, just to start over, again.

&nbsp;

It might be too late to create a new year’s resoltion but I don’t really care. I think the last couple weeks has been a long crafting process for my delayed new year’s resolution. Here’s to writing.

